Hi, I want to take
a moment to thank our
sponsor. Tellerik dev craft by
progress. They're the most comprehensive
developer toolkit for building modern
apps on the market today
with more than 1100 tellerik.net
and Kendo, UI, JavaScript components
and controls, you can easily
build modern high performance web
mobile and desktop apps and
chatbots. The tool set includes
reporting solutions, automated testing, and
productivity tools, and it comes
to the range of support
options. Thousands of demos, free
online training and more progress
software is amongst the new
corporate sponsors of the.net foundation.
And they recently allowed support
for visual studio 2019 now
in preview and the new
dotnet core 3.0 so you
can use their tools with
all the latest, great software
from Microsoft for more information
visit Tellerik that's T L
E R I k.com/hansel minutes.
That's tellerik.com/hansel minutes. . Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. And today I'm talking
with Regina Gilbert. She is
a senior user experience designer
at the Gilbert consulting group,
adjunct professor at New York university
instructor at general assembly. You
weren't a user experience lead
at Ralph Lauren. I mean,
you're doing some really cool
stuff. Oh, thank you. Thank
you for having me on
the show. So I saw
a video of yours on,
on YouTube, where you were
talking about the value of
user experience, and you've pointed
out in a lot of
the things that you've talked
about online, that you're really
excited, not just about user
experience, but about accessible user
experience, inclusive user experience, user
experience for everybody. Yes, I
am very excited about well
user experiences. I love it.
I have been working in
it for the last five
years and I have enjoyed
every moment of it. And
I got into accessibility around
the time I got into
UX and I didn't really
know. I literally woke up
one day and I said
to myself, I want to
make the world a more
accessible place. And I didn't
know what that meant, except
I think I Googled accessibility
and I found an accessibility
meetup here in New York city.
And I went to the
meetup and at this meetup
I met people of all
kinds. I, I, it was
amazing. I met a woman
who is blind. She wasn't
born blind, but she was
blind. And I told her
what I did. I said,
I'm a user experience designer.
She said, what is that?
And I said, well, we
make websites and mobile products
usable for people. And she
asked me a question and
it always stuck with me.
She asked me, do people
like you designers think about
people like me. And I
sat there for a moment
thinking, I don't think I've
heard People like other designers
really talk about. And again,
I was new in the
field, but I didn't really
hear anybody talking about accessibility
or making things for people
who are blind. And I,
I said in all honesty,
no, but I will make
sure they, they, they, they
think about it when I
talk about it. So from,
from there, and in some
ways I made a promise
to make sure that whatever
I worked on, whatever I
taught, I would include accessibility
and making sure that websites
and other digital products were
usable for everyone or a
majority of people. Isn't that
so powerful though. Like, it
sounds silly when you think
about it. I mean, it
sounds silly in retrospect, when
you say, Oh, I have
a blank friend, but when
you meet someone, a person
who isn't, who you are,
you know, blind, disabled, diabetic,
black, white, whatever, that personal
connection reminds you, that that
person exists. And then you
want to meet as many
different kinds of people as
you possibly can. I want
to meet people from all
over all kinds. And then
I want to make products
that make them all happy
and that they're all able
to use. Yeah. I, you
know, I, I tell my
students this all the time
and I have to remind
myself of it that we
think about ourselves the most.
And so when we are
making products for other people,
it's hard for us. And
especially in UX, a big
part of it is empathy
and getting a, get an
understanding of other people. So
it's getting out of your
own head and actually thinking
about someone else is, is
a challenge for a lot
of people. But the minute
you can do that, what
a, what an amazing thing
it is. I mean, I,
the first time I experienced
it truly was during my
undergraduate degree, I went to
Arizona state university and I
studied human behavior, specifically intercultural
and organizational behaviors. And one
of my professors had this
assignment. So I'm, I'm an
African American woman. And I
went to a primarily white
school and this particular class
on intercultural communication was primarily
white. And so the assignment
that was given to a
majority of the students in
the class from my recollection
is that they had to
think about what it would
be like if the next
day they woke up and
they were black. And when
they came back like a
week later or something, their
minds were just so open
because they had never, ever
thought about being anybody other
than who they were. And
so that was my first
taste of, of empathy, I
guess, in, in a lot
of ways and getting to
think about someone else and
seeing how they reacted, because
I had no idea me,
I think about being black
all the time, but for
some people they just, they,
they literally wake up and
they don't think about, you
know, some something out, unless
something happens to you physically,
or, you know, you break
an arm or you break
a leg. You generally don't
think about anyone else other
than yourself. Yeah. It's, it's
funny that you, that you
mentioned that, that you do
have those moments though. I
just, before we got on
the show here, I went
and picked up some teriyaki.
And when I was walking
to the car, I had
a moment as I was
walking across the parking lot.
I just like, I'm walking,
I'm walking pretty well. My
back doesn't hurt. I'm vertical,
I'm mobile, I'm ambulatory. And
I'm walking to my car
and I'm going to get
in my car without pain.
And the reason that I
think that is because I
spent two years with really
non-trivial back issues to the
point where you're hurting so
much, you've forgotten what not
hurting feels like. And that,
that every once in a
while, maybe I would say
a couple of times a
month, I'll just have a
moment where I'm like, Oh,
you know, my back is
okay, what a blessing that
is. And that is one
example. That is an opportunity
in my life or a
thing that has happened. That's
made me, I think, hopefully
more empathetic towards people who
are perhaps less mobile. Right?
Yeah. It makes you think.
Yeah, It does. I was
teasing a, a coworker about
bringing cake to work because
I'm also a type one
diabetic and they're like, Oh,
would you like some cake?
And I was like, no,
but thanks for that painful
reminder of my lifelong struggle
with diabetes. And then, you
know, it was all in
good fun, but they were
like, you mentioned afterwards, they
were like, I never thought
about that. I'm like, yeah,
man, every carbohydrate, every cookie
enjoy. Cause you don't think
about it and I'm counting
it. I've got the chart.
Yeah. I have a nut
allergy and people are like,
Oh, you can have almonds.
And I was like, absolutely
not. I can't have any
of that. Yeah, exactly. So
do is the, is the
answer to empathy and designed
to expose as many people
as possible to as many
other people? I think that's
part of it. And I
think another part of it
is being woke. And when
I say woke, I don't
mean it in the sense
that's in the news and
what's out there and what
people say, but my definition
and what's not mine, but
I found it somewhere is
that you need to watch
observe question and explore woke
and yeah. With the Q
woke with a Q. So
that means, you know, not
only watching things outside of
you, but watching yourself, how
are you reacting to others?
What are you, you know,
what are you doing with
others? Like what do you
question? The things that you
do and then looking at
the outside world and going,
well, why doesn't this thing
work for me? Why doesn't
this product work for me?
What is wrong with this
damn form? I can't fill
it out. You know, that
kind of stuff. And especially
a design perspective, designers solve
problems right in the world.
And the way you do
that is not by being
stuck and looking at your
phone the whole time. It's
by looking out in the
world and seeing what can
be made better. I was
going through a door and
my wife always goes and
pushes on the door, near
the hinge side. And she
said, what's wrong with me?
Why do I keep doing
that? I'm like, it's got
nothing to do with you.
Beat yourself up that door
has a design problem because
you can't tell by looking
at the push bar, which
side the hinges on. Yeah.
We've all had that experience
with the door. That's a
classic UX example of usability.
Right? Can you do the
handles on the outside? Do
you pull it what you
don't know? I mean, it's,
it's always, we've all had
a chief blame herself because
we, we always blame ourselves
for bad design. It's not,
it's not us. It's, it's
really thinking about who that
they think. If you put
a handle on something for
me, I want to pull
it, but I don't know.
Really. Yeah. But you know,
again, My first reaction is
like, what's wrong. I mean,
I'm looking at a door
right now. It has a
handle on both sides. Yeah.
And I would need to
pull it in order to
open it. I don't know.
Everybody's different though. I might
be backwards. I don't know,
Left handed or right handed
or, you know, whatever the
opposite is when I was
doing online banking many, many
years ago, we needed to
make our site five Oh
eight compliant or section five
Oh eight compliant, which everyone
thought just meant putting all
tags on pictures, but really
it meant making it so
the blind could bank and
they had us install jaws,
which was a popular screen
reader at the time. And
we had to turn off
our monitors and like work
for a day. And that
was an extreme example of
forcing empathy. Right. Make you
think, wow, did I code
that the right way? Did
I design that the right
way? I can't get to
the next thing. I don't
know how to get to
the next thing. Right. When
you don't know how to
go about it, if, if
no one designs or develops
it in the right way,
Are there way other ways
to force that without necessarily
making everyone a code blind
for a day or Yeah.
I like to tell people,
see if you can go
through a website just using
the keyboard alone because not
everyone can use a mouse.
I actually have a friend
who had a traumatic stress
injury to his hands. And
so he was no longer
able to use a mouse
because he couldn't hold the
mouse. So he had to
learn how to maneuver with
the keyboard and only using
the keyboard. So it's a
great test to see if
something is accessible just by
using the keyboard. I mean,
back in the day, you
know, when the web first
came out, people use the
keyboard and a lot of
people actually still use the
keyboard because the shortcuts are
much faster for them. Yeah.
That's, I've actually had that
happen where I thought something
was accessible, but then, you
know, you get to the
end of the process and
the okay button can't be
pressed, or I can't tab
my way to add or
cancel, or they expect me
to memorize a hot key
or a hockey. I did
memorize, you know, doesn't actually
work, you know, like escape,
doesn't do what you expect
or enter it. Doesn't do
what you expect, All experience
that all the time, we
assume that the tab is
going to take us to
the next thing. And when
it doesn't what a mess.
Yeah, exactly. And how do
you unlearn those things? Or
how do you, and how
do you teach those things?
Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's really
thinking about the hierarchy too.
I think from a design
perspective. And when I teach
my students, what is the
hierarchy of this page? Where
are people going to go
first? And when I do
see sites that are done
well for accessibility at the
very, very top, it'll say
skip to content. That's exactly
what I need. I need
to skip to content. I
need to skip all this
stuff. Whether if I'm using
a screen reader or if
I'm just using the keyboard,
what a, what a gift
it is to skip all
this crap that I don't
need and just get to
the content that I do.
See now I'm feeling, you're
making me feel bad about
my own site. And I'm
wondering if I need to
go and run some tools
on my own site. If
you add, skip to content
and you bring it straight
to the content, that's always
a nice, a nice little
bonus. I think, Hey folks,
I hope you're enjoying this
podcast. You know, I've done
over 650 podcasts, so I
must enjoy doing it. And
I hope you enjoy listening.
But if you enjoy stories
about the people behind the
technology you use, you should
also check out the greater
than code podcast. They focus
on the human side of
software development. They've got stories
of inclusivity and accessibility from
the people you don't normally
hear from search for greater
than code in your favorite
podcast app, or check out
greater than code.com. So we
talked about visual aspect of
things and talked about somewhat,
you know, motor abilities, but
there's also more subtle things
like not everyone is necessarily
have perfect vision or has
no vision. There's there's, there's
a gray area. No, no,
no. Yeah. Well I think,
I mean, a lot of
people use Instagram. I use
Instagram and what I have
seen is there's a lot
of content out there, video
content that does not have
any captioning and a majority
of users who use Instagram
actually just scroll through. They
don't have the sound on
because one, it's a little
jarring when you have the
sound on and just different
people have different kind of
very loud or just boisterous
things, you know, happening on
their Instagram. But when you
can see the closed captioning,
when you can see what
someone is saying right on
the screen, you don't need
to turn on the sound.
You can read it. And
that's, that's a nice thing
to have. It's just for
me, I'm, I'm a close
caption person. When I watch
TV, I have a friend
who Netflix just added recently,
I believe audio. So audio
description and she, she is
fully sighted, but she, if
she's cooking something, she likes
to use the audio description
so she can still know
what's going on. And although
the audio descriptions are for
people who are visually impaired,
it's something that could really
benefit all of us when
we might be doing something
else, but we still want
to know what's going on.
And the cool thing I
think about accessibility and making
things accessible as they really
benefit all of us. So
many things we all text
today because that was actually
made for people who were
deaf. So it's, it's these
little things that can make
a big difference. You just
made me realize that I,
sometimes I listen to audio
books on the way, you
know, when I drive from
Portland up to Seattle to,
to my job and there's
about four hours there. So
it's an opportunity to listen
to audio books. I could
quote unquote, watch Netflix in
the car by just listening
to the audio description. And
that's just another example where
these things are for everybody.
They make everyone's life. Yeah.
I mean, that's how cool
was that? That you could
be like, well, I've watched
that movie on my drive
and I'll be like, what
exactly. Yeah. I just, I'll
just, I'll put the I'll
I'll put the, the phone
in the trunk and I'll
hook the Bluetooth up and
I'll listen to the audio,
the audio background. That's pretty
slick. Yeah. So there's also
color contrast. I've talked about
this before. My boss is
red, green color blind, but
there's a whole, there's a
whole bunch of colorblindness. It's
more subtle than just one
or the other. And I
think there's four different types.
And an example I often
like to give is it
was 2015. It was a
color rush game for the
NFL. It was the Buffalo
bills and the New York jets,
the Buffalo bills were wearing
all red, the New York jets.
Am I getting this right?
We're wearing all green. And
they were playing on a
green field. So you had
red, green and a green
field. And about, I think,
13 million people in the U
S have red, green color
blindness, a lot of them
men. And I just remember
Twitter people on Twitter being
mad. Cause Twitter and sports
are just so entertaining together,
but people were mad because
they could not tell if
you picture a red team,
a team red, a team
where in green and a
Greenfield and red and green
look great to you. So
you have two teams, which
you can't distinguish their, their
uniforms on a field that
looks like the uniforms they're
wearing. Yeah, it was, it
was a big deal. So
the NFL actually came out
and said, you know, we,
we forgot to incorporate color
blind people in our testing
of this. And then the
next year in 2016, they
came out with white uniforms
because you could distinguish people
who have colorblindness can distinguish
between white and another color.
So I think they still
to this day do color
rush and you'll see even
different. I think NBA does
this color where they all
wear one color, but they
will wear one team, a
world where we'll wear white
and the other team will
wear color. Yeah, yeah. That,
that was meant to be
a big moment. The color
rush campaign, it was November
of 2015 and they say
8% of men are a
color blind. So I apparently
8% of them got on
Twitter and express their distaste
Or not be at all.
But like this game is
a nightmare. I can't tell
which team is my team.
It was really hard for
people to see. And w
when these things happen, we
always ask ourselves like, how
did they not know? How
did, how did this, whatever
this, you know, a crisis
of the day is happen.
We sh someone should have
known, someone should have asked
someone, it comes down to
a failure of testing and
a failure of asking people
to test. Yeah. And even
this, this past summer, because
you know, when, when you
think about accessibility, you know,
people think about people who
are blind, there's cognitive issues,
there's mobility issues and there's
hearing. And so this past
summer, the, the movie, the
Incredibles came out a few
weeks, I think maybe one
week or two after the
movie came out, a warning
came out. And the warning
was that the movie included
some flashes because when people
went to the movies, they
were having seizures. Yeah. That
was about because it was
a big deal. I mean,
it was, it wasn't, it
wasn't it to me, this
is it's 2018 and we're
still making things that aren't
only, you know, they're annoying
to people who, or may
not have that reaction of
having a seizure, but anything
too flashy. I don't like
it. And I don't, I
don't have that reaction, but
I, it, to me to
have such a big movie
have that happen, that that's
a pretty big deal. Right.
To see. So, yeah. It's
also worth pointing out that
after that, that happened, not
only did they add the,
the warning, but they also
changed the film itself for
the digital release. There was
a, there was an overlay
right. Of strobing. And they,
they, they strobed it without
strobing it, they toned it
down for the DVD. Right?
Yeah. So this, I mean,
that could have been potentially
prevented if, if it had
been run through certain testing,
because you need to think
about this. I mean, there
was a case, I think
the Pokemon, it was years
ago in Japan where like
700 kids had seizures because
of a Pokemon episode. Really.
Wow. Yeah. Cause of the
flash. Yeah. And then they
replayed it on the news,
Removing this stuff, doesn't it,
isn't it. It's not, it
doesn't hurt anyone to, to
think about inclusivity in this
way. Like it didn't make
the movie, the DVD that
we saw less than the
theater version, just because we
remove some strokes. It just,
Everyone can see it. Exactly.
Exactly. There are some tools
that I can go to,
like run on my website
to make sure that I
am accessible. So I'm a
huge fan of web aim.org.
And they have a great
color contrast tool. There's also
so much information that they've
broken down the web content
accessibility guidelines in a way
that is easily digestible. If
you go and look at
the week, we CA it's
called week ag. But if
you go look at the
website, you might be overwhelmed.
But I think web aim
does a really good job
of looking and breaking things
down for people. And they
also have a Chrome plugin.
You could use another suggestion.
I have would be taking
a look at equal entry.
They're a agency out of
New York city, but they have
wonderful blog posts. And the,
the owner of the company
is a man named Thomas Logan,
who also runs the accessibility
meetup in New York city. They
also have a ton of
information if you're wanting to
get to know more about
web accessibility or digital products
and accessibility, they're also a
great, great source of information
as well. So you can
run the tools and get
kind of a sense of
what's wrong. You can get
a score or a number,
but then you could also
potentially hire an expert to
do like a, an actual
audit of your yeah. Material.
Yeah. I think if you're
working with a company, you'll
want someone, a professional to
come in and audit, but
it's a good first pass
to go through your website
using the web aim tool.
One of the things that
I found really interesting at
the web team website was
a survey that they did
on visual impairment. Right. And
this is kind of speaks
to what we talked about
before that there's a, a
gradient from completely unable to
see very poor vision up
to moderate there's glare, sensitivity,
contrast, sensitivity, field division issues.
And, and it isn't just
an on or off. It's
not a bit, Right. I
think we've all had the
glare issue with our phones,
even with the iPads, you
know, different things. So, yeah.
Yeah. Someone also had told
me that they did not
realize what their website would
look like once that blue
light, those blue light blockers
people have been using. And
they were, their website became
very unflattering when it had
this, that the, the orange
filter applied to it. I
hadn't even thought about that
one. I use the filter
all the time because I
actually have a sensitivity to
very bright things. So my,
yeah, my, I keep it
on all day, all day.
It's on with that tent
and people are like, what's
wrong with your phone? I
said, nothing is wrong with
your phone. And your phone
is way too bright for
me to look at. Can
you turn it down? I
can't stand a bright screen.
I don't know what it
is. Interesting. It's so interesting.
And speaking of color, contrast,
I was actually watching a
game with golden state. So
I like sports. Obviously I
was watching a game with
golden state with my partner,
and we were looking at
trying to see the score,
but they had yellow and
white. So basically the background
was yellow and the score
was white. And I said,
I can't see the score.
I'm going to tweet at
them. And I tweeted. So
I tweeted at, I think
I tweeted at ESPN. I
tweeted at NBA. I hashtag
eight one, one Y hashtag
accessibility. I was like, and
I took a photo of
it. And I said, I
cannot see the score. You
need to check your contrast
and you need to check
your says, I don't know
what I said. You need
to check your accessibility. And
within 10 minutes they caged
it. And my partner, he
tells me, he's like, you
did that. You changed it.
And I go, I did
not. I don't think I
did, but if a couple
people did retweet it. And
I said, I don't think
they're looking at Twitter. I
think somebody said, Hey, we
can't see the score, but
you know, even that kind
of thing, it's just, it's,
it's a constant, it's not
just for people with disabilities
thinking about it. It's really,
for all of us, all
of us have a different
things. And there are certain
things that we can see
better than others. Yeah. I
was calling my children recently.
Everybody's got something and you
might not be able to
see it. Not every disability
has a wheelchair. Yeah. And
then I, yeah, I think
that a lot of people
think, cause I've had people
come up to me after
I've done talks and say,
Oh, you know, I have
ms. And nobody knows it.
So I'm glad, so glad
you did this. And some
people have, you know, shame
talking about, about their disability
and then they're, they don't
want to talk about it,
but there are others who,
who do. And, and you
know, so hopefully people will
start thinking about themselves, right?
When they get older, I
like to throw out this
statistic, that in the year
2035 in the United States, we
will have more old people
than young. And if we
are not creating products for
our older selves, then what
are we doing? You know,
that is a really interesting
one. I, I don't know
about, I don't know about
you, but I tend to
run smaller fonts. Right? You've
seen all the people who
like to show their text
editors with like their eight
point fonts. But inevitably I'll
be on an airplane next
to someone who's on a
Kindle on older person or
on an iPhone. And they've
got that 24, that's 30
point font. And I'll kind
of chuckle, you know, I
don't, I don't have to
do small fonts. Well, not
large fonts. I don't have
to do it yet, but
it's going to sneak up
on me. And that font
is going to ever so
slowly get bigger and bigger.
And again, that's, that's me
with the big font. I
have big font. So big
font, dim screen. Yeah. Is
I do I do, if
you were like, why is
your ? And I was
like, why is your so
small? I mean, my texts,
Oh, read my texts. I
don't care. You could read
my text. I have nothing
to hide here. Yeah. So
you're exercising all of these
different tools while you're building
the tools. I like to
play around with the accessibility
on my phone. I have
so much to learn because
it's, there's so many different
things to learn out there.
There's, there's, there's just a
lot. And so I love
the thing that I love
about design. And the thing
that I love about accessibility
is that I'm constantly learning.
I learn from my friends
with disabilities. I learned from
myself. I, you know, there's
a big, big saying in
the, in the disability community
is nothing about us without
us. And I made a
point to I'm writing a
book and there's, there's going
to be code in the
book. And so my, the
technical reviewer of my book
is actually deaf. And I
am learning so much from
her about how she navigates,
how she told me the
story of how she wanted
to listen to this podcast,
because she heard so much
about it, but she can't
hear, and there were no
transcripts available. And so she
actually wrote the person, and
this is a very popular
podcast. I can't remember the
name of it, but she'll
mention it, I think, in
the book. And she wrote
the person and the person
said, Oh my goodness, I'll
definitely transcribe that episode. You're
looking for. And I'm going
to go back and transcribe
all my episodes because I
feel like I'm missing out
on a whole audience, which
is so true That one
hits home. Because I actually,
when I first started a
couple of hundred episodes, I
had a court reporter make
me PDFs. And then I
had a, a formal transcription
service. And then I, a
startup that was using AI
to make transcriptions. Here's the
sad part. I ran out
of money. You know, it's
a, it was a couple
bucks a minute to do
the subscriptions and you're doing
two or three hours of
shows every month. You know,
you're looking at several hundred
dollars to go and do
that. So, you know, here
I am espousing, you know,
accessibility, but I don't, I
think the last 30 or
40 shows in fact don't
have transcriptions because it's just
very, very difficult. I'd love
to have someone, maybe who's
listening, sponsor the transcriptions and
I'll go back and we
can, I've got 300 hours
of shows. We could go
and re transcribe the entire
thing and make it searchable.
That'd be amazing. You put
it out there. So now
it's going to happen. I
hope so. Isn't that the
thing though, you put it
into the universe to manifest
it. Yeah. You put it
out there. So that's going
to happen. Transcriptionist coming, coming
back. So I appreciate all
of the stuff that you've
manifested in your career as
a user experience designer, as
an educator, and now you're
international public speaker and people
can check you out on
your website. Thank you so
much for having me on
the show and tastic, we've
been talking with Regina Gilbert,
and this has been another
episode of Hansel minutes. We'll
see you again next week.
.